README.md, before:

# Proton MO2 Installer
[![Latest Tag](https://img.shields.io/github/v/tag/ralgar/proton-mo2-installer?style=for-the-badge&logo=semver&logoColor=white)](https://github.com/ralgar/proton-mo2-installer/tags)
[![Software License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/ralgar/proton-mo2-installer?style=for-the-badge&logo=gnu&logoColor=white)](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.html)
[![Github Stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/ralgar/proton-mo2-installer?style=for-the-badge&logo=github&logoColor=white&color=gold)](https://github.com/ralgar/proton-mo2-installer)


## Overview
This project intends to make modding Bethesda games on Linux a reality for every Linux user. It provides a set of scripts, which automatically configure a fully functional instance of Mod Organizer 2.

There is also a detailed [Wiki](https://github.com/ralgar/proton-mo2-installer/wiki) (WIP) to document the installation and usage of other tools.

**Note:** The only tested game at this time is Skyrim SE. I don't own the other games.

### Features
- [x] Simple, GUI-driven installer. Installs, updates, and uninstalls cleanly.
- [x] Installs Mod Organizer 2, LOOT, and Script Extender.
- [x] Installs custom Proton version required for Mod Organzer 2.
- [x] Launching the game from Steam now launches Mod Organizer 2 instead (see [Proton Shunt](https://github.com/ralgar/proton-shunt)).
- [x] NXM links from your browser can be sent directly to Mod Organizer 2.
- [x] FNIS, Nemesis, BodySlide, Outfit Studio, and other tools all work as expected. DynDoLOD takes a bit of tweaking (see the [Wiki](https://github.com/ralgar/proton-mo2-installer/wiki) for details).
- [ ] Steam Deck support (I don't own one, please let me know if it works or not).
- [ ] Flatpak Steam support (experimental / coming soon).


## Getting Started

### Prerequisites
You may need to manually install the following dependencies:
- bsdtar
- protontricks

These dependencies should be available out-of-the-box on most systems:
- curl
- xdg-utils
- zenity

### Installation
Installation is simple:
1. Install your chosen game through Steam.
2. Grab the latest stable release of the installer [here](https://github.com/ralgar/proton-mo2-installer/releases).
3. Make sure Steam is *not* running before starting the installer..
4. Run `setup`, and follow the prompts until finished.
5. Launch the game via Steam. It will now launch MO2 instead.

**Note:** Configuring the prefix can take a long time in some cases. There is no fix for this, just be patient.


### Configuring Mod Organizer 2
**On the first run of MO2:**
- Choose *Create a portable instance*.
- Choose the game that you're installing for.
- Choose a location to store the instance data. I recommend choosing a *non-default* location, see [Notes](#notes).
- Connect your Nexus account (using an API key is recommended).
- Click *Finish* to create the instance.
- Choose either *Yes* or *No* when asked if you want tutorials.
- Choose *Yes* when MO2 asks if you want it to handle NXM links.

**Executable Paths:**
- To regain access to the game's launcher, edit the executable path in MO2 by simply appending `.bak` to the filename.

**Installing Additional Modding Tools:**
1. Many tools can be installed as mods using MO2.
2. Under the `Data` tab, find the executable, right click it, and choose `Add as Executable`.

**Note:** LOOT is included in MO2, just press the *Sort* button under the *Plugins* tab.


## Supported Games

The following is a small overview of the current state of each supported game:<br>
Note: Much of this data is carried over from [modorganizer2-linux-installer](https://github.com/rockerbacon/modorganizer2-linux-installer), and may be outdated.

| GAME                   | GAMEPLAY        | SCRIPT EXTENDER           | ENB           |
| :--------------------- | :-------------- | :------------------------ | :------------ |
| Fallout 3              | not tested      | not tested                | not tested    |
| Fallout 4              | working         | [some plugins might not work](https://github.com/rockerbacon/modorganizer2-linux-installer/issues/32) | ENB v0.393 or older, disabling "EnablePostPassShader" might be necessary |
| Fallout New Vegas      | fullscreen only | working                   | working       |
| Morrowind              | not tested      | not tested                | not tested    |
| Oblivion               | working         | [some plugins might require manual setup](https://github.com/rockerbacon/modorganizer2-linux-installer/issues/63#issuecomment-643690247)                 | not tested    |
| Skyrim                 | working         | working                   | working       |
| Skyrim Special Edition | working         | working                   | working       |

For known bugs and workarounds, please refer to the [issues page](https://github.com/ralgar/proton-mo2-installer/issues?q=is:issue+is:open+label:bug+)

Please help to keep this table up to date by [opening issues](https://github.com/ralgar/proton-mo2-installer/issues/new/choose) with any problems you encounter.


## Updating the tools

Updating is a painless process thanks to the installer's *Update* function.

Here is what you need to do in order to update:

1. Grab the latest stable release of the installer [here](https://github.com/ralgar/proton-mo2-installer/releases).
2. Make sure Steam is *not* running before starting the installer.
3. Run `setup`, following the prompts to *Update*.


## Notes

- There is no Vortex support, and there probably never will be. In my experience, it simply isn't capable of handling heavy mod stacks nearly as well as Mod Organizer 2 is.
- The included *Uninstall* function will wipe out your Mod Organizer 2 instance if you store it in the default location. This includes all of your downloaded and installed mods.


## Credits

- [Rockerbacon](https://github.com/rockerbacon) - For creating the original Lutris scripts that inspired this project.<br>
    The main `setup` script was written from scratch, the contents of `handlers/` have been heavily reworked, and the contents of `gamesinfo/` are mostly untouched.
- [Frostworx](https://github.com/frostworx) - For building the custom Proton required for Mod Organizer 2.


## License

GNU General Public License v3.0 (see LICENSE or https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.txt)

Commit message:

Improve user friendliness
- Removed the requirement for Steam to be closed when beginning
  installation. The installer will now close Steam if necessary.
- The Uninstaller no longer removes the instance path, to prevent any
  accidental data loss for users who store their mod data in this
  default location. Removing this directory must now be done manually
  by the user.

README.md, after:

# Proton MO2 Installer
[![Latest Tag](https://img.shields.io/github/v/tag/ralgar/proton-mo2-installer?style=for-the-badge&logo=semver&logoColor=white)](https://github.com/ralgar/proton-mo2-installer/tags)
[![Software License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/ralgar/proton-mo2-installer?style=for-the-badge&logo=gnu&logoColor=white)](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.html)
[![Github Stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/ralgar/proton-mo2-installer?style=for-the-badge&logo=github&logoColor=white&color=gold)](https://github.com/ralgar/proton-mo2-installer)


## Overview
This project intends to make modding Bethesda games on Linux a reality for every Linux user. It provides a set of scripts, which automatically configure a fully functional instance of Mod Organizer 2.

There is also a detailed [Wiki](https://github.com/ralgar/proton-mo2-installer/wiki) (WIP) to document the installation and usage of other tools.

**Note:** The only tested game at this time is Skyrim SE. I don't own the other games.

### Features
- [x] Simple, GUI-driven installer. Installs, updates, and uninstalls cleanly.
- [x] Installs Mod Organizer 2 with integrated LOOT, and Script Extender.
- [x] Installs custom Proton version required for Mod Organzer 2.
- [x] Launching the game from Steam now launches Mod Organizer 2 instead (see [Proton Shunt](https://github.com/ralgar/proton-shunt)).
- [x] NXM links from your browser can be sent directly to Mod Organizer 2.
- [x] FNIS, Nemesis, BodySlide, Outfit Studio, and other tools all work as expected. DynDoLOD takes a bit of tweaking (see the [Wiki](https://github.com/ralgar/proton-mo2-installer/wiki) for details).
- [ ] Steam Deck support (I don't own one, please let me know if it works or not).
- [ ] Flatpak Steam support (experimental / coming soon).


## Getting Started

### Prerequisites
You may need to manually install the following dependencies:
- bsdtar
- protontricks

These dependencies should be available out-of-the-box on most systems:
- curl
- xdg-utils
- zenity

### Installation
Installation is simple:
1. Install your chosen game through Steam.
2. Grab the latest stable release of the installer [here](https://github.com/ralgar/proton-mo2-installer/releases).
3. Run `setup`, and follow the prompts until finished.
4. Launch the game via Steam. It will now launch MO2 instead.

**Notes:**
- The installer may interact with Steam in various ways, this may include closing running Steam instances, and launching the game to inititalize the prefix. Do NOT interfere with this process or the installation will fail to complete.
- Configuring the prefix can take a *long* time in some cases. There is no fix for this, just be patient.


### Configuring Mod Organizer 2
**On the first run of MO2:**
- Choose *Create a portable instance*.
- Choose the game that you're installing for.
- Choose a location to store the instance data. I recommend choosing a *non-default* location, see [Notes](#notes).
- Connect your Nexus account (using an API key is recommended).
- Click *Finish* to create the instance.
- Choose either *Yes* or *No* when asked if you want tutorials.
- Choose *Yes* when MO2 asks if you want it to handle NXM links.

**Executable Paths:**
- To regain access to the game's launcher, edit the executable path in MO2 by simply appending `.bak` to the filename.

**Installing Additional Modding Tools:**
1. Many tools can be installed as mods using MO2.
2. Under the `Data` tab, find the executable, right click it, and choose `Add as Executable`.

**Note:** LOOT is included in MO2, just press the *Sort* button under the *Plugins* tab.


## Supported Games

The following is a small overview of the current state of each supported game:<br>
Note: Much of this data is carried over from [modorganizer2-linux-installer](https://github.com/rockerbacon/modorganizer2-linux-installer), and may be outdated.

| GAME                   | GAMEPLAY        | SCRIPT EXTENDER           | ENB           |
| :--------------------- | :-------------- | :------------------------ | :------------ |
| Fallout 3              | not tested      | not tested                | not tested    |
| Fallout 4              | working         | [some plugins might not work](https://github.com/rockerbacon/modorganizer2-linux-installer/issues/32) | ENB v0.393 or older, disabling "EnablePostPassShader" might be necessary |
| Fallout New Vegas      | fullscreen only | working                   | working       |
| Morrowind              | not tested      | not tested                | not tested    |
| Oblivion               | working         | [some plugins might require manual setup](https://github.com/rockerbacon/modorganizer2-linux-installer/issues/63#issuecomment-643690247)                 | not tested    |
| Skyrim                 | working         | working                   | working       |
| Skyrim Special Edition | working         | working                   | working       |

For known bugs and workarounds, please refer to the [issues page](https://github.com/ralgar/proton-mo2-installer/issues?q=is:issue+is:open+label:bug+)

Please help to keep this table up to date by [opening issues](https://github.com/ralgar/proton-mo2-installer/issues/new/choose) with any problems you encounter.


## Updating the tools

Updating is a painless process thanks to the installer's *Update* function.

Here is what you need to do in order to update:

1. Grab the latest stable release of the installer [here](https://github.com/ralgar/proton-mo2-installer/releases).
2. Make sure Steam is *not* running before starting the installer.
3. Run `setup`, following the prompts to *Update*.


## Uninstalling

Uninstalling is simple, just run `setup`, and follow the prompts to uninstall.

**Note:** The uninstaller will *never* remove the `~/.local/share/proton-mo2-installer` directory. Because this is the default location for MO2 instances, some users may have mods stored in this location. To prevent any accidental data loss, it is up to you to remove this directory manually.


## Credits

- [Rockerbacon](https://github.com/rockerbacon) - For creating the original Lutris scripts that inspired this project.<br>
    The main `setup` script was written from scratch, the contents of `handlers/` have been heavily reworked, and the contents of `gamesinfo/` are mostly untouched.
- [Frostworx](https://github.com/frostworx) - For building the custom Proton required for Mod Organizer 2.


## License

GNU General Public License v3.0 (see LICENSE or https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.txt)
